---
layout: plain
title: GSoC Project Ideas
---

Below, you can find some ideas on the directions in which we could jointly push Polypheny forward. Please consider them as starting points for your proposal. Of course, if you have other ideas, we would be very happy to hear them. Feel free to [contact us](/community/gsoc/#contact) and get feedback on what you plan to do beforehand.

Simply copying and pasting one of the ideas will not work. On the other hand, creating a completely new idea without first [consulting](/community/gsoc/#contact) the mentors might be difficult as well.
{:.message}

* this unordered seed list will be replaced by toc as unordered list
{:toc}


##  Visualize It
In debugging mode, Polypheny creates a lot of log output on all decisions and optimizations taken while processing a query. This output is hard to read but contains a lot of useful and interesting information for developing and optimizing Polypheny. 

In the query optimization process, several candidate plans are generated by applying optimization rules. Every candidate plan has a certain cost assigned. While Polypheny-UI contains support for visualizing query plans, this is currently only done for the selected plan and not for all candidate plans.

The idea of this project is to visualize this debugging information in the UI. Furthermore, the existing query plan visualization should be extended to allow browsing through the candidate plans including a list of the applied rules and the associated costs.

**Difficulty**: medium


## Server-side Query to File
For some applications, especially for those making use of the multimedia and file storage capabilities of Polypheny-DB, it is useful to represent and interact with a table (or the result of an arbitrary query) as file system. With _Query to File_ we already have a prototype implementation of this using FUSE and running on the client computer. 

The idea of this project is to integrate this concept directly into Polypheny-DB. Instead of an application running on the local machine, Polypheny-DB should provide a FTP or WebDAV share that could then be mounted on other machines.

**Difficulty**: medium


## Support for Default Functions and Auto-Increment
Auto-increment a primary key or inserting the result of a function (e.g. the current timestamp) is a common feature in database systems. The idea of this project is to add support for this handy feature in Polypheny-DB.

**Difficulty**: medium

 
## Data Source Adapter for Excel Sheets
Data source adapters allow to map existing data into the schema of Polypheny-DB. This allows to query the mapped data using the available query languages and features of Polypheny-DB. Furthermore, imported tables can be joined with other tables. Polypheny-DB currently contains support mapping data from different JDBC databases and CSV files. 

The goal of this project is to add adapter similar to the CSV adapter but for Excel files. You can also come up with your own idea for a data source adapter. Data source adapters do not necessarily need to support data modification queries.

**Difficulty**: easy-medium


## Physical Query Plan Builder
The Polypheny-UI already comes with a logical query plan builder integrated. The aim of this project is to implement a graphical build tool for physical query plans similar to the one for logical query plans. In the polystore context, the physical query plan distinguishes from the logical one by using operators specific to the involved data store adapters. 

A physical query plan builder would be extremely helpful for development. Because there is already an implementation for logical plans, parts of the code can be reused. 

To get an impression how a physical query plan in Polypheny looks like you can simply execute a query in the UI and have a look at the plan by selecting "Physical Query Plan" in the left menu.

**Difficulty**: medium


